welcome back to the LEGO Club show you
know these giant Lego models are pretty
impressive but did you ever wonder what
goes into making creations this big well
I had a chance to go to the Czech
Republic to the Lego master builder shop
to get the inside scoop check it out
welcome to Prague this beautiful city in
Central Europe is the capital of the
Czech Republic and the country's biggest
city - it's been around for more than a
thousand years and with more than a
million people living here it's still
going strong Prague has been called the
mother of cities the golden city and the
city of a hundred spires and it's not
hard to see why and this is frog castle
built in the ninth century and the
record holder for the biggest ancient
castle in the world it's been home to
Kings presidents and even Holy Roman
emperors there's even the world-famous
astronomical clock which is built in
1410 that means that it is 600 years old
can you imagine what all these amazing
architects could have built with Lego
bricks they had the chance
well we couldn't stay in Prague too long
because we had to get to our real
destination the lego model building plan
and Kladno a city 25 kilometers away
from prague the lego groups kladno plant
has only been open for a few years but
it's already become an important part of
the company and the people who work here
at one of the most fun jobs in the world
building Lego sculptures so let's head
inside for an exclusive behind the brick
look at how the model building process
works
hello my name is Mike rush and designer
here in Gardner and today I'm going to
show you the stuff we are doing here and
particularly today I will show you the
big dragon model look at the size of it
let's find out how the Kladno model
builders design and assemble this
gigantic Lego dragon first the basic
shape is pushed pulled and tweaked on
the computer until it looks just right
then the designers use a program called
Lego brick builder to convert the 3d
computer model into a pattern they can
build with Lego bricks so it was
designed a spinal chop and the next step
is the technicians job to make the model
stiff and strong and so we will go and
see how they do
giant models made with Lego bricks are
heavy really heavy in order to make this
one strong enough to stand up the
technicians have to create a metal
skeleton inside to support all that
weight the individual sections of the
giant Lego sculpture are assembled brick
by brick from the computers instructions
with the metal support frame they'll
Krait into each segment along with any
moving internal mechanisms like the
Dragons opening and closing jaws
and then here in the model shops
technical area it's finally time to put
everything together and see this giant
Lego sculpture come to life Wow
stay tuned to LEGO Club comm for more
super awesome episode
clubs show